GDP 2: Horizontal iteration space specification via region() (#1)
VulcanClimateModeling/gt4py: docs/GDPs/gdp-0002.rst

    # Requires new python function to call stencils on each region
    def ubke(uc, vc, ut, ub, dt5, dt4, grid):​
        domain_y_edge = (grid.ni, 1, grid.nz)
        domain_x_edge = (1, grid.nj, grid.nz)
        main_ub(uc, vc, grid.cosa, grid.rsina, ub, dt5=dt5, ​
                origin=(grid.local_istart, grid.local_jstart, 0),
                domain=(grid.ni, grid.nj, grid.nz))​
        if grid.west_edge:​
            x_edge_ub(ut, ub, dt5=dt5, ​origin=(grid.local_istart, grid.local_jstart, 0), ​domain=domain_x_edge)​
        if grid.south_edge:
            y_edge(ut, ub, dt4=dt4, origin=(grid.local_istart, grid.local_jstart, 0), domain=domain_y_edge)
        if grid.north_edge:
            y_edge_ub(ut, ub, dt4=dt4, origin=(grid.local_istart, grid.local_jend, 0), domain=domain_y_edge)
        if grid.east_edge:
            x_edge_ub(ut, ub, dt5=dt5, origin=(grid.local_iend, grid.local_jstart, 0), domain=domain_x_edge)

This example motivates a number of requirements for the feature. It must be able to

1. specify regions in the context of a global iteration space (for global boundary conditions) using different `with` blocks inside a single stencil

> 2. specify arbitrary sub-regions using a clean abstraction

Reviewer: They were rewritten from the original document. Now that I read both again, I feel like you're right - they're quite similar. I'll remove the second one.

3. specify cleanly regions at and near the edge of compute domains
4. read from and write to fields inside halo regions

The specific feature that we are proposing is the addition of a `region()` specifier that complements the `interval()`, but treats the horizontal instead of the vertical.

> Arguments passed to the `region()` specifier can be arbitrary Python expressions resolved at compile time, which result in objects specifying the local index region for the contained computation.

Reviewer: This was written by @mcgibbon to be vague at this point. I changed it to `are Python expressions resolved at compile time`.

        with computation(PARALLEL):
            with interval(...): # applies to the compute domain as it does now
                ub = dt5 * (uc[0, -1, 0] + uc - (vc[-1, 0, 0] + vc) * cosa) * rsina
            with region((WestEdge(0, 1), EastEdge(0, 1)), interval(...):
                # Executes on regions defined by the Box objects
                ub = dt5 * (ut[0, -1, 0] + ut)​
            with region(SouthEdge(0, 1), NorthEdge(0, 1)), interval(...):
                ub = dt4 * (-ut[0, -2, 0] + 3.0 * (ut[0, -1, 0] + ut) - ut[0, 1, 0])

    # Python wrapper to unpack arguments
    def compute(uc, vc, ut, ub, dt5, dt4, grid):​
        ubke(uc, vc, grid.cosa, grid.rsina, ub, ut, dt5, dt4)

This reduces the complexity of the code and consolidates operations on `ub` - it is now clear what the stencil is doing to `ub` everywhere.
Model developers already understand the idea of offsets with the stencil notation of e.g. `uc[0, -1, 0]`, which is analogous to specifying offsets from an edge of the horizontal domain.

All that needs to be changed in the frontend is adding the `region()` specifier, **so all existing GT4Py code will continue to work as before.**

> The new `region()` specifier accepts `local_origin` and `extent` that describe the horizontal iteration space in a way that describes the process-local iteration space, and can also represent the global space if the space is domain decomposed and computed by a set of processes.

Reviewer 2: and if you get fields with different halo sizes the question is if the box is relative to the (global) origin or relative to the end of the compute domain of any given field?

> The new `region()` specifier accepts `local_origin` and `extent` that describe the horizontal iteration space in a way that describes the process-local iteration space, and can also represent the global space if the space is domain decomposed and computed by a set of processes.

Reviewer 3: This is an issue I've struggled with, as well. The issue is that there doesn't really exist a "east edge", there's only a mid-level east edge and an interface-level east edge index. We can handle this either by using EastEdge and knowing to add offsets for interface-level variables, or by using `EastEdge` and `InterfaceEastEdge` or somesuch. There are still inevitable issues when you use both mid and interface variables with the latter, though.

This is in some ways a limitation underlying gt4py - that you can define an index iteration space and it is to be applied uniformly across a set of variables (the inputs to a stencil), even though those variables may have differing shapes/sizes.

I think in short this is a larger issue in gt4py, the GDP suits the current way gt4py operates and making it possible for stencil offsets to be array-shape or dimensionally aware is a separate issue.

> The new `region()` specifier accepts `local_origin` and `extent` that describe the horizontal iteration space in a way that describes the process-local iteration space, and can also represent the global space if the space is domain decomposed and computed by a set of processes.

Reviewer: > how do you intend to deal with fields that have different sizes?

Good question. It would be done the same way as it is now. Application developers set the domain and origin for a field, and loop over some indices in gt4py. So `LeftEdge(0,1)` corresponds to some global indices, converted to local, then again interpreted potentially differently when indexing the field and accessing the underlying memory.

> The new `region()` specifier accepts `local_origin` and `extent` that describe the horizontal iteration space in a way that describes the process-local iteration space, and can also represent the global space if the space is domain decomposed and computed by a set of processes.

Reviewer: > and if you get fields with different halo sizes the question is if the box is relative to the (global) origin or relative to the end of the compute domain of any given field?

0 should always remain relative to the global origin. If you want to use negative indices, that's at the application's own risk.

> The new `region()` specifier accepts `local_origin` and `extent` that describe the horizontal iteration space in a way that describes the process' local iteration space, and can also represent the global space if the space is domain decomposed and computed by a set of processes.

Reviewer 3: This character seems to mess up the formatting in the rest of the document.
```suggestion
The new `region()` specifier accepts `local_origin` and `extent` that describe the horizontal iteration space in a way that describes the process-local iteration space, and can also represent the global space if the space is domain decomposed and computed by a set of processes.
```

> It may not be immediately obvious that this supports the notion of a global iteration space, but the object passed to `region()` is constructed by the user, and can embed details about the domain partitioning. It is the responsibility of this object to translate from a global index provided by the user to a local index used by gt4py.

Reviewer: The domain decomposition logic lives in the application (for now), however the application would like to do it. The "Python expressions" you commented on above can call into partitioner objects that live in the application to do the global->local iteration space translation.

To explain how this works, consider part of the example above with a domain of size N by N by K points, decomposed by three processes using vertical strips of the domain:

.. math:: \mathrm{proc}\, 0: [0,n) \times [0,N) \times [0,K),\quad \mathrm{proc}\, 1: [n,2n) \times [0,N) \times [0,K),\quad \mathrm{proc}\, 2: [2n,N) \times [0,N) \times [0,K).

.. code-block:: python

    with region(WestEdge(0, 1), EastEdge(0, 1)), interval(...):

This part of the example neatly indicates that it is intended to be run on both the east and west edges of horizontal plane for each `k`, with an index strip `1` wide.
The construction and evaluation of these application-specific objects, `WestEdge(0,1)` and `EastEdge(0,1)`, are done before code generation, and can call into user-provided code.
These objects have attributes `local_origin` and `extent` which define the iteration space in the horizontal plane `i` and `j`.
The union of the boxes defined by each of these objects is used for iteration.

When GT4Py asks for the iteration space from the region objects, it sees different `local_origin` and `extent` on each process using the local iteration space indices:

.. code-block:: python

>     proc 0:    local_origin=(0, 0), extent=(1, N)

Reviewer 2: insn't the I-extent missing here?

Reviewer 3: It's actually the k-extent which is missing here. Which brings up an important question - should these exclude the first (vertical) dimension?

Reviewer: The `extent` here is in the horizontal plane, so it's a 2-tuple.

    proc 1:    local_origin=(0, 0), extent=(0, 0)

>     proc 2:    local_origin=(n-1, 0), extent=(1, N)

Reviewer 2: this would lead to separate code on separate processors, right?

Reviewer: Yes. Code generation could keep the loop on proc 1, but the bounds would be such that it doesn't execute.

At some point we need different code executed, right? We can also include information about the entire loop if you think that would help.

The result of the evaluation is inserted directly into code, so GT4Py and its backend never deal with partitioning.
Translation to the local indices is done within the Box object specialization from the application.

> Note that if this example had only one process, the local and global iteration spaces coincide, so the `local_origin` and `extent` set simply get passed on to GT4Py unmodified.

Reviewer 2: so if you only have one processor you get a set of two origin extent pairs?

Reviewer: Yes. I added this example to the doc.

Compilation-Time Evaluation
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The expression `expr` inside `region(expr)` is evaluated at compile-time, and the resulting index ranges are stored in the library module created.
Importantly, this means that GT4Py does not need to create objects to mirror these expression at call-time, as they may call partitioners or other application-specific code.

Region Objects
++++++++++++++

The attributes provided by the region objects, `local_origin` and `extent`, mirror the existing implementation which accepts `origin` and `domain`.
This stays compatible with GridTools boundary conditions.
If the `extent` is of size `0` in any dimension, the block will not execute.
This information could be utilized by the backend to optimize not computing unnecessary stencils.
Note that `region` takes in an arbitrary number of arguments (`region(*args)`) so the same sub-stencil can execute on any number of rectangular areas specified, as was shown in the motivating example.

Application developers will create their own specializations of Box for their particular uses.
For example, since our use case has edges and corners, we may have specific `Corner` specializations as well.

> When using `region()`, the stencil caller should avoid using `origin` and `domain` as this would change the iteration space and would be very error prone.

Reviewer 2: should these concepts still exist though? It's not very pythonic to have two ways of doing the same thing and it seems that all the extent / origin things can be handled like this? Unless you want to apply the same stencil in different regions?

Reviewer 3: I think the idea was for backwards compatibility and so people don't necessarily need to use this new feature. The old way could be deprecated if the gt4py developers agree this should replace the old way (would need input from other groups to see if it suits their cases).

Reviewer: I don't think they should exist, but we can pose this as purely backward-compatible if we keep it for now. Let's see what the GT4Py devs think first.

        domain_x_edge = (1, grid.nj, grid.nz)
        main_ub(uc, vc, grid.cosa, grid.rsina, ub, dt5=dt5, ​
                origin=(grid.local_istart, grid.local_jstart, 0),
                domain=(grid.ni, grid.nj, grid.nz))​
        if grid.west_edge:​
            x_edge_ub(ut, ub, dt5=dt5, ​origin=(grid.local_istart, grid.local_jstart, 0), ​domain=domain_x_edge)​
        if grid.south_edge:
            y_edge(ut, ub, dt4=dt4, origin=(grid.local_istart, grid.local_jstart, 0), domain=domain_y_edge)
        if grid.north_edge:
            y_edge_ub(ut, ub, dt4=dt4, origin=(grid.local_istart, grid.local_jend, 0), domain=domain_y_edge)
        if grid.east_edge:
            x_edge_ub(ut, ub, dt5=dt5, origin=(grid.local_iend, grid.local_jstart, 0), domain=domain_x_edge)

This example motivates a number of requirements for the feature. It must be able to

1. specify regions in the context of a global iteration space (for global boundary conditions) using different `with` blocks inside a single stencil
2. specify arbitrary sub-regions using a clean abstraction
3. specify cleanly regions at and near the edge of compute domains
4. read from and write to fields inside halo regions

> In the `detailed description` section below we offer a few alternatives, but all these involve adding a `region()` specifier that allows for specifying subsets of the horizontal iteration space.

Reviewer 3: It's important to specify that the arguments to `region` can be arbitrary python expressions and that they're resolved at compile time. There are a lot of other ways to implement this which are much less flexible or don't offer the same opportunity for optimization.
```suggestion
In the `detailed description` section below we offer a few alternatives, but all these involve adding a `region()` specifier that allows for specifying subsets of the horizontal iteration space. Arguments passed to the `region()` specifier can be arbitrary Python expressions resolved at compile time, which result in objects specifying the local index region for the contained computation.
```
I'm intentionally unclear about the details of the "objects" since they differ slightly in the different alternatives below.

Reviewer: We overlapped editing this section. That's a good sentence, so I copied it into what I had written.

Using this, the example above is transformed into:

.. code-block:: python

>     @gtscript.stencil(backend=backend_type, partitioner=part_type) # Single stencil

Reviewer 3: I believe there is no need to pass `partitioner` as an explicit argument here. Partitioner is linked to this code through the user definitions of WestEdge etc.

Reviewer: Leftover code. Thanks for catching!

    def ubke(uc: FIELD_TYPE, vc: FIELD_TYPE, cosa: FIELD_TYPE, rsina: FIELD_TYPE, ut: FIELD_TYPE, ub: FIELD_TYPE, dt5: float, dt4: float):
        with computation(PARALLEL):
            with interval(...): # applies to the compute domain as it does now
                ub = dt5 * (uc[0, -1, 0] + uc - (vc[-1, 0, 0] + vc) * cosa) * rsina
            with region((WestEdge(0, 1), EastEdge(0, 1)), interval(...):
                # Executes on regions defined by the Box objects
                ub = dt5 * (ut[0, -1, 0] + ut)​

>             with region((SouthEdge, 0, 1), (NorthEdge, 0, 1)), interval(...):

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
            with region(SouthEdge(0, 1), NorthEdge(0, 1)), interval(...):
```

                ub = dt4 * (-ut[0, -2, 0] + 3.0 * (ut[0, -1, 0] + ut) - ut[0, 1, 0])

    # Python wrapper to unpack arguments
    def compute(uc, vc, ut, ub, dt5, dt4, grid):​
        ubke(uc, vc, grid.cosa, grid.rsina, ub, ut, dt5, dt4)

This drastically reduces the complexity of the code and consolidates operations on `ub` - it is now clear what the stencil is doing to `ub` everywhere.
Model developers already understand the idea of offsets with the stencil notation of e.g. `uc[0, -1, 0]`, which is analogous to specifying offsets from an edge of the horizontal domain.

All that needs to be changed in the frontend is adding the `region()` specifier, **so all existing GT4Py code will continue to work as before.**
The new `region()` specifier accepts what are essentially slices that describe the horizontal iteration space in a way that describes the process' local iteration space, and can also represent the global space if the space is domain decomposed and computed by a set of processes.

> It may not be immediately obvious that this supports the notion of a global iteration space, but the object passed to `region()` is constructed by the specific application, and can embed details about the domain partitioning.

Reviewer 3: Most of the time gt4py seems to say "user" when they talk about the application, I think.
```suggestion
It may not be immediately obvious that this supports the notion of a global iteration space, but the object passed to `region()` is constructed by the user, and can embed details about the domain partitioning. It is the responsibility of this object to translate from a global index provided by the user to a local index used by gt4py.
```

The processes that do not have an global iteration space index intersection with the provided slices simply see the empty set for the region and simply skip the loops.

Usage and Impact
----------------

This is an optional feature, but should help nearly every application of GT4Py, since almost all partial differential equations at some point have a non-periodic boundary condition or require special treatment somewhere in the domain.

Backward Compatibility
----------------------

This GDP aims to be fully backward-compatible.

Detailed description
--------------------

The intent of this GDP is to a specify horizontal bounds inside the stencil in a similar fashion to how vertical intervals are specified.
However, the fact that there are multiple dimensions in the horizontal, halos, and domain decomposition imply the feature needs to be more complex than a simple index range used for the vertical.

As introduced above, we propose adding a new gtscript `region()` specifier that applies the stencil on a region of the space when a non-zero intersection with the global region specified occurs.

> The idea behind using the Box classes is that they can incorporate both the iteration space a process sees and the global partitioning that an application must handle, all while hiding the complexity at the stencil level for model developers.

Reviewer 3: We removed references to Box above.
```suggestion
The idea behind using the region objects is that they can incorporate both the iteration space a process sees and the global partitioning that an application must handle, all while hiding the complexity at the stencil level for model developers.
```

In this proposal, the application remains in control of the partitioning data so **the partitioner is entirely transparent to both GT4Py and its backend.**

To explain how this works, consider part of the example above with a domain of size N by N by K points, decomposed by three processes using vertical strips of the domain:

.. math:: \mathrm{proc}\, 0: [0,n) \times [0,N) \times [0,K),\quad \mathrm{proc}\, 1: [n,2n) \times [0,N) \times [0,K),\quad \mathrm{proc}\, 2: [2n,N) \times [0,N) \times [0,K).

.. code-block:: python

    with region((WestEdge(0, 1), EastEdge(0, 1)), interval(...):

This part of the example neatly indicates that it is intended to be run on both the east and west edges of horizontal plane for each `k`, with an index strip `1` wide.

> The construction and evaluation of these application-specific objects, `WestEdge(0,1)` and `EastEdge(0,1)`, are done before code generation, call into user-provided code, and each return a tuple of slice objects defining the iteration space in the horizontal plane `i` and `j`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The construction and evaluation of these application-specific objects, `WestEdge(0,1)` and `EastEdge(0,1)`, are done before code generation, and can call into user-provided code. These objects have attributes `local_origin` and `extent` which define the iteration space in the horizontal plane `i` and `j`. The union of the boxes defined by each of these objects is used for iteration.
```

The edge objects are wrappers that provide ranges to a `Box` class:

.. code-block:: python

>     with region(Box(slice(0+grid.global_istart, 1+grid.global_istart), slice(0, N))), interval(...):

Reviewer 3: Could remove this block entirely - a Box base class is not necessary, though gt4py could provide a `namedtuple` with `local_origin` and `extent` as a basic version of this object t ype.

> When GT4Py asks for the iteration space from the Box, it sees different slices on each process using the local iteration space indices:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When GT4Py asks for the iteration space from the region objects, it sees different slices on each process using the local iteration space indices:
```

.. code-block:: python

>     proc 0:    ((slice(0, 1), slice(0, N)),)
>     proc 1:    (,)
>     proc 2:    ((slice(n-1, n), slice(0, N)),)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    proc 0:    local_origin=(0, 0), extent=(1, N)
    proc 1:    local_origin=(0, 0), extent=(0, 0)
    proc 2:    local_origin=(n-1, 0), extent=(1, N)
```
I assumed there was a bug in the original writing of the `proc2` example, could modify the extent if not.

.. code-block:: python

    with region(Box(slice(0+grid.global_istart, 1+grid.global_istart), slice(0, N))), interval(...):

When GT4Py asks for the iteration space from the Box, it sees different slices on each process using the local iteration space indices:

.. code-block:: python

    proc 0:    ((slice(0, 1), slice(0, N)),)
    proc 1:    (,)
    proc 2:    ((slice(n-1, n), slice(0, N)),)

The result of the evaluation is inserted directly into code, so GT4Py and its backend never deal with partitioning.
Translation to the local indices is done within the Box object specialization from the application.

Note that if this example had only one process, the local and global iteration spaces coincide, so the slices set simply get passed on to GT4Py unmodified.

Compilation-Time Evaluation
+++++++++++++++++++++++++++

The expression `expr` inside `region(expr)` is evaluated at compile-time, and the resulting index ranges are stored in the library module created.
Importantly, this means that GT4Py does not need to create objects to mirror these expression at call-time, as they may call partitioners or other application-specific code.

> Box Objects
> +++++++++++

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Region Objects
++++++++++++++
```

> The `Box` slice data could be coverted into a `local_origin` and a `local_domain`, to mirror the existing implementation and stay compatible with GridTools boundary conditions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The attributes provided by the region objects, `local_origin` and `extent`, mirror the existing implementation which accepts `origin` and `domain`. This stays compatible with GridTools boundary conditions.
```

> If the `local_domain` is of size `0` in any dimension, the block will not execute.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If the `extent` is of size `0` in any dimension, the block will not execute.
```

This information could be utilized by the backend to optimize not computing unnecessary stencils.

> Note that `region(*args)` so the same sub-stencil can execute on any number of boxes passed, as was shown in the motivating example.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Note that `region` takes in an arbitrary number of arguments (`region(*args)`) so the same sub-stencil can execute on any number of rectangular areas specified, as was shown in the motivating example.
```

Application developers will create their own specializations of Box for their particular uses.
For example, since our use case has edges and corners, we may have specific `Corner` specializations as well.

When using `region()`, the stencil caller should avoid using `origin` and `domain` as this would change the iteration space and would be very error prone.

Halo Regions
++++++++++++

It is important for our application that halo regions can be accessed by the stencils.
This falls out naturally from the `region()` by passing negative integers to the `Edge` boxes.
For example, `WestEdge(-2,0)` will access two lines of halo points.

Corner Cases and Warnings
+++++++++++++++++++++++++

It may be the case that a part of the iteration space is accessed twice by different `with` blocks.
These should ideally be scheduled and run in the order they appear, but as a first implementation GT4Py could throw an error in this case.

> An option should be added to determine if this should be an error.

Reviewer 3: We want it to not throw an error eventually, I think, because there are cases where the code first goes over the entire region and then it corrects corners and edges.

Reviewer: Already removed. Thanks.

There could also be an option to warn the user if they have not covered the entire iteration space in a stencil.
This could be useful for debugging.

Related Work
------------

The dawn compiler accepts regions of the horizontal iteration space in its stencil intermediate representation.

Implementation
--------------

The implementation on the GT4Py side should be relatively light. We will need to

1. add the `region()` specifier parsing to the AST visitor in IRMaker_
2. add the reduced iteration space to the internal IR
3. ensure backends parse this information correctly
4. add a few corresponding tests for the feature

.. _IRMaker: https://github.com/GridTools/gt4py/blob/master/src/gt4py/frontend/gtscript_frontend.py#L454

> Implementation on the application side is to setup specializations of the Box class for its needs.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Implementation on the application side is to define region classes for its needs.
```

> It would be interesting to perform math operations like `intersection()` and `union()` of boxes.
> This can be implemented in a later step purely on the GT4Py side.

Reviewer 3: We can't actually perform union on these region objects, since the union of rectangular regions is not necessarily rectangular. Union is implied implicitly by providing multiple arguments to gt4py. Intersection makes more sense to provide as a pure-python function, which could be used in providing arguments to `region`. I think though it's out of scope for this GDP.
```suggestion
```

Reviewer: Agreed. We can just suggest this feature eventually as an add-on.

    with partitioner.tile_north(ut, start=-1, end=0) as domain:
        y_edge(ut, ub, dt4=dt4, origin=domain.origin, domain=domain.extent)
    with partitioner.tile_east(ut, start=-1, end=0) as domain:
        x_edge(ut, ub, dt5=dt5, origin=domain.origin, domain=domain.extent)

This is similar to the idea of a region object, but is more directly utilizing a user defined object rather than a special boundary keyword.
It is unclear how this would translate to the backend.

Discussion
----------

This issue is related to this discussion, a precursor to this proposal:
https://github.com/GridTools/gt4py/issues/9
It is an alternative approach to the backend optimization of corners and edges.

References and Footnotes
------------------------

.. [1] Each GDP must either be explicitly labeled as placed in the public domain (see
   this GDP as an example) or licensed under the `Open Publication License`_.

.. _Open Publication License: https://www.opencontent.org/openpub/

Copyright
---------

This document has been placed in the public domain. [1]_

Additional Examples
-------------------

Here are additional examples that may be helpful for discussion as we review this proposal.

> Special corner handling
> +++++++++++++++++++++++
> 
> .. code-block:: python
> 
>   SWCorner(starti, endi, startj, endj) -> Box(slice(starti + global_istart, endi + global_istart), slice(startj + global_jstart, endj + global_jstart))​
>   SECorner(starti, endi, startj, endj) -> Box(slice(starti + global_iend, endi + global_iend), slice(startj + global_jstart, endj + global_jstart))​
>   NWCorner(starti, endi, startj, endj) -> Box(slice(starti + global_istart, endi + global_istart), slice(startj + global_jend, endj + global_jend))​
>   NECorner(starti, endi, startj, endj) -> Box(slice(starti + global_iend, endi + global_iend), slice(startj + global_jend, endj + global_jend))​
> 
>   @gtscript.stencil(backend="dawn:gtmc", partitioner=partitioner)
>   def brbl_stencil(q: FIELD_TYPE, al: FIELD_TYPE, br: FIELD_TYPE, bl: FIELD_TYPE):
>     with computation(PARALLEL), interval(...):
>         br = al[0, 1, 0] - q
>     with boundary(SWCorner(-1, 0, 0, 1), SECorner(0, 1, 0, 1), NWCorner(-1, 0, 1, 2), NECorner(0, 1, 1, 2)), interval(...):
>         br = 0
>     with computation(PARALLEL), interval(...):
>         bl = br[-1, 0, 1]  + al
> 
>   brbl_stencil(al, q, br, origin=(local_istart - 1, local_jstart, 0), domain=(local_ni + 1, local_nj, nk))

Reviewer 3: I think corner handling is an obvious extension of the edge handling example written above, it shouldn't be necessary to include it.
```suggestion
```
